A Kind of Magic (known as Magic – La Famille Féerique in France) is a French animated television series created by Michel Coulon and Marc du Pontavice, the creators of Oggy and the Cockroaches based upon Arthur de Pins's original design. It was produced by French animation company Xilam Animation with the participation of France 3 and Disney Television France in Season 1, Gulli and Canal J for Season 2. The series was directed by Charles Vaucelle for Season 1 and William Renaud for Season 2, the character designerZAGTOON heads for MIP Junior with a raft of blue chip animation programs by David Gilson and the executive producer by Marc Du Pontavice. The series first aired in 2008 on Disney Channel France and France 3. The series was rated the most popular series at the 2007 MIPCOM Junior trade show, attracting over 280 buyers. A second season started airing in 2018. The second series aired on Canal J. It is now a web series on the YouTube channel with the same name. == Synopsis == The story deals with a 10-year-old child named Tom, and his family's problems, including his older sister Cindy (14 years old), who is crazy after every boy she sees, his toad 'His Highness', his evil maternal aunt Ferocia who wants to turn him evil as well, his ditzy fairy mother Willow and his vegetarian ogre father Gregore who have been exiled from Fairyland and now have to live on Earth. == Characters == *Tom (voiced by Sauvane Delanoë) is the main protagonist and Cindy's 10-year-old younger brother. Clever, spontaneous and mischievous, Tom has the presence of mind of a boy who has had to take care of himself from very young. Thanks to his limitless imagination and instinctive quick reflexes, he is able to convince anyone of anything. This skill is very useful to his absent-minded family members who are always forgetting they no longer live in a world of magical creatures. *Cindy (voiced by Kelly Marot), is Tom's 14-year-old older sister. Stubborn, rebellious, and very romantic, Cindy knows that a better future awaits her. In Fairyland, she was responsible for cleaning the sewers of the kingdom, but in the Real World, she dreams of grand projects and a more agreeable life. Like all teenagers (adolescents), she worries about being accepted by the other children at school. In general she opposes the use of magic because she considers it distasteful, but she makes use of it when it helps her accomplish what she wants. *Ferocia (voice by Colette 'Coco' Noël) is Tom and Cindy's aunt, Willow's sister, a witch and an anti-hero (also a main villain when she has power). Many words describe Ferocia that her personality has: horrible, cruel, wicked and a pain in the rear, but also neutral. She delights in causing mayhem, even for her own family. She laughed when her brother planned to rob her sister and brother-in- law of all their savings and she enjoyed frightening Tom with the idea of being forgotten if his parents had more children. She adores tormenting Gregore and will take every opportunity to torment him. She also likes to taunt His Highness about his ugliness. Ferocia has a macabre sense of humor and sees horror films as comedies. When she had her powers she was a villain to be feared. *Willow (voiced by Claire Guyot) is Tom and Cindy's mother, Ferocia's sister and Gregore's wife. Willow is optimistic, light-hearted, positive, motherly and carefree. She also has a mischievous side as seen in "Meet The Parent" and "Frames!". She believes that good will always conquer evil. She can be strict when she has to and she can be overprotective shown in the Wishing Powder. Willow is also a strong woman, always honest with her heritage and who she is. While she tried to integrate into the real world, she refused to forget who and what she was. She also stood up by herself, not letting anyone take her for granted and not letting the world disappoint her. Underneath her cheerful, positive and carefree personality, Willow is a very smart woman. However, she is very dashing and innocent. Even as a fairy in the real world and wonderland, she uses her wings and flight. In addition, she uses her magic with her wand to do anything. *Gregore (voiced by François Seiner (Season 1); Jérémy Prévost for season 2) is Tom and Cindy's father and Willow's husband. Despite giving up on becoming a reformed goblin, he is a sweet, kind, gentle and responsible father to Tom and Cindy. In addition, he is a father, always a little clumsy, kind, cheerful, but cowardly and afraid of anything (except dentists). Towards a difficult personality when he dislikes Cindy's antics and mischief along with Ferocié's laughter, calling his name and insulting him except for whatever happens to him, he's often angry, fierce, aggressive, hot-tempered (but short-tempered) and always evil. ==Production== The musical theme is an adaptation of the song A Kind of Magic by the British band Queen. On 3 November 2015, Xilam announced the production of a second season from 2016. This will contain fifty-two thirteen-minute episodes. ==Episodes== Season 1 (Directed by Charles Vaucelle) Number in Series Number of Season English Name France Name Written By Storyboard By 1 1 Memory Gaps Trous de mémoire! Michel Coulon Laurent Jennet 2 2 Meet The Parent Bonjour la famille! Bob Mittenthall Gloria Ketterer Charles Vaucelle 3 3 Trust La confiance règne Steve Sustarsic Vincent Dubost 4 4 Framed! Le vol Yves Coulon Jean-Marc Lenglen Laurent Jennet 5 5 Big Love Trompeuses apparences Mark Hodkinson Fred Mintoff Sandra Derval 6 6 Uncle Sandman Le marchand de sable Steve Sustarsic Sandra Derval 7 7 The Ventriloquist Le ventriloque Richard Conroy Frederic Mintoff 8 8 Wishing Powder Lessivés! Mark Hodkinson Vincent Dubost 9 9 What Big Teeth You Have Que vous avez de grandes dents Linda O'Sullivan Laurent Jennet 10 10 Ugly, Idle & Nasty Affreux, Fainéants et Méchants! Yves Coulon Vincent Dubost 11 11 When An Ogre Loves A Fairy L'ogre et la fée Mark Hodkinson Frederic Mintoff 12 12 A Dog's Life Une vie de chien Michel Coulon Jean-Luc Abiven 13 13 A Fairytale Wedding Pour le meilleur ou pour le pire? Jean-Marc Lenglen Laurent Jennet 14 14 The Truth, Nothing But The Truth La vérité, rien que la vérité! Michel Coulon Frederic Mintoff 15 15 An Awkward Visit Une visite gênante Yves Coulon Laurent Jennet 16 16 Family Matters Affaires de famille Alain Vallejo Agop Besson 17 17 Peekaboo Tom! Pas vu, pas pris Yves Coulon Jean-Marc Lenglen Vincent Dubost 18 18 The Wand's Burial L'enterrement de la baguette Yves Coulon Jean-Marc Lenglen Laurent Jennet 19 19 Lovely Dragon Un amour de dragon Yves Coulon Jean-Marc Lenglen Ludovic Hell 20 20 Babysitting Baby-sitting Linda O'Sullivan Laurent Jennet 21 21 Whatever You Wish À vos souhaits! Michel Coulon Vincent Dubost 22 22 Daddy Un-Cool Papa pas cool Marteinn Thorisson Ferderic Mintoff 23 23 Deep Freeze Debout là-dedans! Yves Coulon Marc Lenglen Laurent Jennet 24 24 Mosquito Fairy Le moustique Michel Coulon Yves Corriger 25 25 Only Child Fils unique Yves Coulon Jean-Marc Lenglen Séverine Morin 26 26 Home Sweet Home Conte à rebours Yves Coulon Jean-Marc Lenglen Jean-Louis Champault Season 2 (Directed by William Renaud) Number in Series Number of Season English Name France Name Written By Storyboard By 27 1 Candy Through The Looking Glass De l'autre côté du miroir Fiona Leibgorin Matthieu Pitschon 28 2 Trapped As A Tomboy Un garçon presque manqué Lison d'Andrea Etienne Pinault 29 3 The Future's Tense Futur Imparfait Fiona Leibgorin Alexandre Ulmann 30 4 A Natural Beauty Belle à l'intérieur Jean-Marc Lenglen Olivier Dutranoy 31 5 Going Viral Les stars de l'école Jean-Marc Lenglen Jerome Fardini 32 6 Operation Tamara Opération Tamara Jean-Marc Lenglen Paul Herve 33 7 My Dad The Super Hero Mon père ce super-héros Michel Coulon Alexandre Ulmann 34 8 A Princess For His Highness Une princesse pour mon Monseigneur Alexandre Reverend Renaud Gagnon Etienne Pinault 35 9 The Tables Have Turned La triche Yves Coulon Jerome Fardini 36 10 The Clay Model Pote à modeler Renaud Gagnon Etienne Pinault 37 11 Thicker Than Mud Un air de famille Caroline Torreli Alexandre Ulmann 38 12 The Spellbook Strike Back À chacun sa voix Laure-Elizabeth Bourdaud Elisa Loche Olivier Dutranoy 39 13 The Pixel and the Profile Fée's Bok Fiona Leibgorin Etienne Pinault 40 14 Tom's Tall Tales Tom pousse Arnold Boiseau Jerome Fardini 41 15 Willoween Willoween Renaud Gagnon Stéphane Annette 42 16 Fairy Busy Un travail de fée Michel Coulon (Based on Story By Michel Coulon And Charles Vaucelle) Alexandre Ulmann 43 17 Cinderella's Rebellion Cendrillon se rebelle Michel Coulon Etienne Pinault 44 18 Your Own Medicine Dans la peau d'un crapaud Renaud Gagnon Stephane Annette 45 19 The Ogre Who Wanted To Be Santa Claus L'ogre qui voulait être le père Noël Michel Coulon Alexandre Ulmann 46 20 The Delight of Gründa Les Délices de Gründa Lison d'Andrea Alexandre Ulmann 47 21 The Prince, The Frog and the Witch Le Prince, la grenouille et la sorcière Michel Coulon Etienne Pinault 48 22 The Hybrid Heartthrob L'Idéal de Cindy Yves Coulon Etienne Pinault 49 23 Professor Ferocia Mademoiselle Férocette Fiona Leibgorin Stephane Annette 50 24 The Nature of the Beast Grégor dans tous ses états Lison d'Andrea Jerome Fardini Alexandre Ulmann 51 25 Ferocia Fiancé Les Fiançailles de Férocia Caroline Torrelli Alexandre Ulmann 52 26 Tom Only Tom sans famille Laure-Elizabeth Bourdaud Johanna Goldschmidt Elisa Loche Alexandre Ulmann 53 27 Cat's Got Your Tongue Une vie de chat Michel Coulon Stéphane Annette 54 28 Jojo The Dodo C'est pas Jojo Lison d'Andrea Alexandre Ulmann 55 29 The Big Bad Field Trip Promenons-nous dans les bois Elisa Loche Stéphane Annette 56 30 Mrs. Nice Ferocia Férocia super sympa Fiona Leibgorin Alexandre Ulmann 57 31 Strong As An Orge Petit ogre deviendra grand Cyril Deydier Renaud Gagnon Etienne Pinault 58 32 In Your Wildest Dream Même pas en rêve Michel Coulon Alexandre Ulmann 59 33 Master of Delusion Abracadabra Michel Coulon Alexandre Ulmann 60 34 Big Bad Dog Le Grand gentil loup Elisa Loche Pierre Le Gall Etienne Pinault 61 35 A Fish Out of Water Comme un poisson dans l'eau Renaud Gagnon Stéphane Annette 62 36 My Not-Fairy Family Ma famille pas féerique Fiona Leibgorin Alexandre Ulmann 63 37 A Valentine's Pipe Dream Ma sorcière mal-aimée Lison d'Andrea Alexandre Ulmann 64 38 A Children's Game Un jeu d'enfants Lison d'Andrea Alexandre Ulmann 65 39 Inseparables Inséparables Lison d'Andrea Stéphane Annette 66 40 The Cruelest of Them All Blanche-Niaise et les sept nains Renaud Gagnon Etienne Pinault 67 41 Beauty and the Beast La belle et la grosse bête Michel Coulon Stéphane Annette 68 42 Prince Not-So-Charming Monseigneur dans toute sa splendeur Fiona Leibgorin Alexandre Ulmann 69 43 Love Give You Wing L'amour donne des ailes Elisa Loche Pierre Le Gall Etienne Pinault 70 44 The Charming Orge L'Ogre charmant Caroline Torrelli Pierre Le Gall Alexandre Ulmann 71 45 Can't Scare Me Même pas peur Renaud Gagnon Stephane Annette 72 46 Mirror, Mirror, Off The Wall Miroir, mon beau miroir Michel Coulon Alexandre Ulmann 73 47 An Almost Perfect Day Une journée presque parfaite Renaud Gagnon Alexandre Ulmann 74 48 Right Under Your Nose Au nez et à la barbe Lison d'Andrea Alexandre Ulmann 75 49 The Broken Wands Maman, on a cassé la baguette! Lison d'Andrea Alexandre Ulmann 76 50 My New Best Friend Ma nouvelle meilleure amie Elisa Loche Pierre Le Gall Stephane Annette 77 51 Princess Melba Three Princesse Melba III Renaud Gagnon Romain Cislo 78 52 In My Shoe Vis ma vie Pierre Le Gall Alexandre Ulmann ==References== Category:2000s French animated television series Category:2006 French television series debuts Category:Animated television series about children Category:Animated television series about families Category:Disney animated television series Category:French children's animated fantasy television series Category:French flash animated television series Category:Xilam