A Dangerous Toy (originally titled Il giocattolo) is a 1979 Italian crime drama film written and directed by Giuliano Montaldo. It was co-produced by Sergio Leone. The toy of the title is a gun. The film chronicles how a frustrated and shy accountant may become a cruel and ruthless executioner. For his role in this film Vittorio Mezzogiorno won the Silver Ribbon for Best Supporting Actor. == Plot == The accountant Vittorio Barletta lives in Milan with his wife Ada. A friend since childhood of the industrialist Nicola Griffo, Vittorio serves him as a security carrier and as a cover for "black funds". Wounded in the course of a robbery at a supermarket, Barletta is replaced by a more aggressive former carabinieri marshal for the tasks of security guard of the Griffo. In the meantime, having made acquaintance and friendship with the agent Sauro Civera, Vittorio finds out of having a talent for pistol shooting and becomes so expert as to win shooting competitions. Robbed of his newly acquired weapon, the accountant receives a pistol as a gift from Sauro. Having gone with his policeman friend to a pizzeria, the latter recognizes a convict who reacts by killing him, but Vittorio too, after a few moments of perplexity, shoots and kills the bandit. The TV and the press cover the hero but the noise doesn't last long and doesn't bring in money. Ada is seriously ill. Vittorio is teased by Nicola, by his wife, Laura, and by the reckless daughter of the Griffos, Patrizia. Meanwhile, threats of evil are multiplying, communicated by telephone or through anonymous letters. During an ambush he shots and wounds the attackers then he spends a few days in jail. Abandoned by Nicola, who fires him after making him sign the sale of a phantom company, the accountant locks himself up in the house with the increasingly weak Ada. Then, when he can't take it anymore, Vittorio decides to humiliate the Griffos, but his dying wife is determined to stop him. == Cast == *Nino Manfredi: Vittorio Barletta *Marlène Jobert: Ada Barletta *Arnoldo Foà: Nicola Griffo *Vittorio Mezzogiorno: Sauro Civera *Olga Karlatos: Laura Griffo *Pamela Villoresi: Patrizia Griffo *Mario Brega: the robber *Luciano Catenacci: Griffo's bodyguard *Renato Scarpa: the gunsmith *Daniele Formica: Gualtiero *Arnaldo Ninchi: TV interviewer ==References== ==External links== * Category:1979 films Category:1970s crime thriller films Category:1970s action thriller films Category:Italian vigilante films Category:1970s Italian- language films Category:Films directed by Giuliano Montaldo Category:1979 crime drama films Category:Films scored by Ennio Morricone Category:Films set in Milan Category:Films with screenplays by Sergio Donati Category:1970s vigilante films Category:1970s crime action films Category:1970s Italian films