A Is for Atom (1953) is a 14-minute promotional animated short documentary film created by John Sutherland and sponsored by General Electric (GE). The short documentary, which is now in the public domain, explains what an atom is, how nuclear energy is released from certain kinds of atoms, the peacetime uses of nuclear power, and the by-products of nuclear fission. The film is Sutherland's most-decorated film, having won numerous honors at film festivals. The film also received a theatrical release, opening at the Pantages and Hillstreet Theatres in Los Angeles on July 2, 1953.The Hollywood Reporter, July 3, 1953, pg. 13 The distributor was Al O. Bondy, who made the short available for free.Boxoffice Barometer, Jan. 30, 1954, pg. 145 ==Synopsis== A narrator is relating what is an atom and how atomic energy can be harnessed by man to produce "limitless" energy. Dr. Atom (a caricature with an atom for a head) then explains the similarities between the solar system and atomic structure. He then goes on to relate how the atom is made up of protons, neutrons, and electrons. After this, the narrator explains how there are more than 90 elements with many possible isotopes for each. The history of atomic energy is then over viewed beginning with the discovery of artificial transmutation. This then led to the discovery of nuclear fission and eventually nuclear weapons and nuclear energy using the chain reaction of radioactive material. The Oakridge uranium factory is then discussed as well as the first nuclear reactor and the first uses of plutonium. The future of fantastical nuclear power plants is then explained. The short ends on the uses of radio isotopes in medicine and agriculture. The film includes a blue "nuclear giant" character, very similar to Dr. Manhattan from the graphic novel Watchmen. ==Re-release & update== A is for Atom was re-released by General Electric in 1964. John Sutherland Studios was contracted by GE to modernize the film. Changes included tighter editing, new music, new narration (Bud Hiestand did the voice-over on the original) and a focus on nuclear power as opposed to nuclear bombs. ==See also== * Destination Earth * "Our Friend the Atom" * Your Safety First * Atoms for Peace == References == ==External links== * * Category:1953 short films Category:American animated short films Category:American animated documentary films Category:Sponsored films Category:Documentary films about nuclear technology Category:General Electric sponsorships Category:Films scored by Eugene Poddany Category:1950s animated short films Category:1950s American animated films Category:Articles containing video clips Category:1953 animated films Category:1950s English- language films Category:American short documentary films